# Word Blitz Solver

This is a basic program that solves the game [word blitz](https://wordblitz.com/), created by [Nicholas-Waller](https://github.com/Nicholas-Waller). The game can be found on Andriod, Apple, Facebook, and Snapchat. 

## Rules of the game
The basic rules of word blitz are as follows: 
1. A random 4x4 board is generated that is shared between you and your opponent. Some tiles have multipliers. For our purposes, these multipliers will be ignored.
2. The user tries to find words, which can be generated by swiping to any adjacent tile from the current one, including diagonals. The user is given a score based on the complexity and multipliers for the word. 
3. At the end of the round, your score is compared against your opponents, and you can view what the best words are. 
4. Repeat 1-3 2 more times. Whoever has more points at the end of the game wins. 

An example board is given in board.txt. As seen, the most basic words are "hello", "world", and "friend". The most complex word in this board is "forworden". 

## Implementation
There are several things to note about this algorithm. The data structure used to store the words in words.txt is a Trie tree. More can be read about Trie trees [here](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Trie). Then, with this tree, the program iterates over all 16 starting characters. For each starting character, it will find all adjacent tiles, and recursively call down on that character. If, on a recursive call, there are no words with that prefix, due to the nature of the data structure, it will terminate that recursion. If on that recursion, it finds a word, it will add that word to the list of all words, and keep recursing. At the end of the program, it removes all duplicates and sorts by length, then outputs. 

## Running the program
Run "make". Then, run "./solver". If you want to input the board from a file, run "./solver ${FILENAME}.txt". 